#labels Phase-Deploy,Featured
= Quick Install Guide =

ZoneIdeas are really easy to install. Follow next few steps and you will have running site in no time.

To run ZoneIdeas your host just needs a couple of things:
  
  * PHP (Version 5.2 or greater) 
  * MySQL (Version 4.x or greater) 
  * Web server (We recommend [http://www.lighttpd.net/ Lighttpd] or Apache, IIS or any other server that supports running PHP scripts)

If you don't now what is it — you can always ask you hosting provider. Here's a letter you can send to your hosting provider.

{{{
I'm interested in running the open-source ZoneIdeas http://zoneideas.org/ web software and I was wondering if my account supported the following:

  * PHP 5.2 or greater
  * MySQL 4.0 or greater

Thanks!
}}}


If you are planning use ZoneIdeas on your computer, check, for example, XAMPP package (http://www.apachefriends.org/en/xampp.html).

== Steps for installation ==

1. Download zip package with ZoneIdeas source files from (http://zoneideas.org/download/).

2. Unzip the package you downloaded to the directory of your choice on your webserver.

3. Create new database for ZoneIdeas on your MySQL server (Probably with phpMyAdmin or CPanel or ask you hosting provider to do this for you).

4. Open *settings.php* file in your favorite editor (Notepad etc.).

5. Fill nessesary fields with info from your account to MySQL server

{{{  
  define("MYSQL_HOST",     "localhost" );       // host name - in most cases it is localhost
  define("MYSQL_DATABASE", "database_name" );   // database name - database you created in step 3)
  define("MYSQL_USER",     "database_user" );   // database user that have access to the database
  define("MYSQL_PASSWORD", "" );                // database user password 

}}}
  If you are planning use ZoneIdeas on shared hosting server, you will get needed this info from your hosting provider.
  It is possible you will have to ask them to create new database for you. It depends on hosting settings and your hosting plan.
  

6. Create all database tables required to run ZoneIdeas with file sql_schema.sql


7. Access directory on web server you inserted ZoneIdeas in with your browser: 
for example if you unzipped ZoneIdeas directory to root of web server directory on your local machine, write to address bar of your browser:  http://localhost/zoneideas
You need running web server and MySQL though ;)